To know 'the value of your things' is to maximize one's resources to accomplish a goal. Having self-respect means to know the values of your things.

Self-respect is the foundation of a healthy self-esteem and a positive self-image (OpenAI GPT quote).

When one uses their resources in the best possible way without complaining of lack to realize a goal, one is often more responsible to manage more resources (ie: money, opportunity, work, etc). Having self-respect means to realize a goal without complaining.

By respecting yourself, you demonstrate to others how you expect to be treated, fostering healthier relationships (OpenAI GPT quote).

People/society/'the system' reinforce 'states of being and doing'. People who have success and those who do not have success have experiences that reinforce their state of success and non-success. Having self-respect means to change your actions daily so that you reinforce success in your life.

Following age, gender, race, and religion paradigms could lead to discrimination, violence, poor decision making, self-disrespect, disrespect to others, loneliness, and gossiping. Having self-respect means to not pay attention to age, gender, race, and religion paradigms, but focus on associations created by education, skill, and practice because they allow for societal success.

Ultimately, self-respect is essential for your overall well-being and happiness, as it empowers you to live authentically and with dignity (OpenAI GPT quote).

Some people who have low self-respect may practice lying due to fear of not being able to obtain the things that they need in life, and they even lie when they do not need to lie because it becomes an engrained response mechanism. Having self-respect means to be aware that lying is an excuse to not be present, have the courage to participate honestly in difficult situations without causing offense and/or violence.

When you have self-respect, you set boundaries and standards for how you allow others to treat you (OpenAI GPT quote).

Having self-respect means to not blindly follow people or connect yourself to others such that your life and their lives are directly influenced by the other person's actions. One does not have control over other people's lives, one can only control their own life. Having self-respect and respect for others means to make boundaries (ie: an understanding of how one wants to be treated, or an intermediate that prevents direct interaction) such that other people's actions/lives do not directly influence your life, and similarly your life actions should not directly influence other people's lives.

One believes that they are suffering because they only look at the problem from one way. When you look at the problem from multiple perspectives you can see that you are not suffering. Having self-respect means to stay active, and take small actions and steps to change the situation.

People who participate in illegal, irresponsible activities, and lying, participate because they believe that they can not obtain societal success without these behaviors. They lack self-respect because there are different ways to behave that are accepted by society to obtain success. Taking unnecessary risk to loose one's freedom, money, job, home, or life is a form of self-disrespect. Having self-respect means to not take unnecessary risks, such that one's dignity of one's character is not lost.

Having self-respect means valuing yourself and your worth, which can lead to greater confidence and self-assurance (OpenAI GPT quote).

People who participate in risky activities (lying, joking, etc) may have the luxury to do so because their character is established and trusted in society, such that their dignity, financial stability, and societal reputation are not damaged. Having self-respect means to determine whether you have the 'luxury to participate in risky activities', meaning established enough in society to sustain one's life and character.

If one is not yet established in society, like a graduate, their societal reputation strongly depends on what others say and think about them. For this reason, non-established individuals who eventually become established have mentors and positive people honestly speaking about their abilities. Having self-respect as a non-established individual means to not participate in risky activities that may negatively influence people's opinions of you (ie: associate with people who think of you poorly/negatively, lying, joking, etc.).

Believing that you are less good, not worthy, or that you need to be forgiven all the time, means that you disrespect yourself. Self-respect is knowing that one can always 'do better', learn, and achieve the necessary things in life to live in society responsibility and happily; proper esteem or regard for the dignity of one's character.

Having self-respect means having the courage to want 'to be yourself' and take responsibility for your life, without unnecessary help from others.

Life is what you make it, just try! Having self-respect means to have belief and confidence in one's self, such that they can do better or acheive success all by themselves.

When one uses their resources in the best possible way without complaining of lack to realize a goal, one is often more responsible to manage more resources (ie: money, opportunity, work, etc). Having self-respect means to realize a goal without complaining.

Having self-respect is creating long-term happiness, wealth, and life stability (physical and mental safety, comfort, and freedom).

To have self-respect means to not follow or attach yourself to others so that you have more success. Someone with self-respect takes responsibility for their own life.

To have self-respect means to not threaten, insult, or inflict violence on someone else regardless of the reason. Each person has the responsibility to control their own life.

To have self-respect and respect for others means to not waste your time or other people's time; time is one of the most precious resources.

Having self-respect is to be self-sufficient and not take things from others because one can. Taking things from others means that you do not believe that you could do the same things, and thus you think you are a victim and have low self-respect.
